Link to Google Slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1YVaa_jO04xdjSb1whWxWgwnSabo5_kXlbjnRRgnqUPs/edit?usp=sharing

Bibliography
Aaron, Sam, director. Sam Aaron Live Coding an Ambient Electro Set w/ Sonic Pi. YouTube, YouTube, 7 Aug. 2016, https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G1m0aX9Lpts. Accessed 5 Nov. 2023.
Aaron, Sam. “A Communicative Programmer.” Sam Aaron - A Communicative Programmer, sam.aaron.name/. Accessed 5 Nov. 2023.
Aaron, Sam. “SamAaron - Overview.” GitHub, github.com/samaaron. Accessed 5 Nov. 2023.
Aaron, Sam. “Sonic Pi.” Sonic Pi - The Live Coding Music Synth for Everyone, sonic-pi.net/. Accessed 5 Nov. 2023. 

Slide Breakdowns:

Sam Aaron:
Sam Aaron is a well accomplished researcher and computer scientist, who describes himself as a computational thinker.
He has a PhD in computer science, and spends his time finding ways to integrate computer programming into many facets of society in the ways it can serve as another way for people to communicate and connect with one another.


This Performance (in a literal sense):
The pacing of this performance, in terms of how well things worked to my own tastes, varied throughout.
While the set feels a bit rocky in places, most notably the first timestamp, and a majority of this stemmed from how sudden some of the dynamic changes were. On top of this I felt as though the pacing felt a bit weird throughout the first third of the set, with how things grew and swelled without too much of a payoff sonically. 
As the set progresses, moments like the second timestamp were quite nice rhythmically speaking but I was left feeling a little miffed with the simplicity of the sound design of the melodic synth material, though I understand that is a matter of personal taste. 
From then on, moments like the third timestamp were really satisfying, and has a really nice form with house things sort of burn out, giving way for the piano to play, as Sam sets up the rhythmic system for the last third of the performance, which is also very satisfying once it arrives. This section also does a really nice job of pacing, and the building of dynamics was much less jarring. The way in which the drums and synths come in to completely change the time-feel was really great, and the glitchy processing on the percussive elements definitely aligned more with my usual tastes in sounds.


This Performance (in an abstract sense):
Taking into account Sam’s intention behind computer programming, and more specifically live-coding, I understand that a big part of his impetus is building connection and communication with others. I think that a live-coding performance in itself is achieving this, as with all musical performances.
Outside of that, I don’t exactly know if he directly communicates this through his music, or I wasn’t exactly moved in that sense by the music itself.


My Thoughts:
Something that excited me were the complexities of the last 3 or 4 minutes of the set, and was a nice insight into some of the ways live-coding can be good for building compositionally complex layers of rhythms.
On the other hand, some frustrations I had were primarily based within the sonic palette, and while one must take into account the technical limitations one may encounter in a live-coding environment, it wasn’t exactly exciting me forward to dive deeper into the subject for applications within my own creative endeavors, which is something I really look for in peoples’ art/music/contributions to this world.


Takeaways:
I think my main takeaway from this analysis of Sam Aarons work here is that live-coding is something I should probably spend a lot more time trying to understand from a technical standpoint before I can really thoughtfully analyze or critique it.
Also, I realized how much my own personal biases come into play when interacting with creative work or creative methods that intimidate me or that I have previous negative experiences with.
                                                                                                                                                                                                             (have a good day rachel!)
